doc/api/perf_hooks.md, before:

# Performance Timing API

<!--introduced_in=v8.5.0-->

> Stability: 1 - Experimental

The Performance Timing API provides an implementation of the
[W3C Performance Timeline][] specification. The purpose of the API
is to support collection of high resolution performance metrics.
This is the same Performance API as implemented in modern Web browsers.

```js
const { performance } = require('perf_hooks');
performance.mark('A');
doSomeLongRunningProcess(() => {
  performance.mark('B');
  performance.measure('A to B', 'A', 'B');
  const measure = performance.getEntriesByName('A to B')[0];
  console.log(measure.duration);
  // Prints the number of milliseconds between Mark 'A' and Mark 'B'
});
```

## Class: Performance
<!-- YAML
added: v8.5.0
-->

The `Performance` provides access to performance metric data. A single
instance of this class is provided via the `performance` property.

### performance.clearEntries(name)
<!-- YAML
added: v9.5.0
-->

Remove all performance entry objects with `entryType` equal to `name` from the
Performance Timeline.

### performance.clearFunctions([name])
<!-- YAML
added: v8.5.0
-->

* `name` {string}

If `name` is not provided, removes all `PerformanceFunction` objects from the
Performance Timeline. If `name` is provided, removes entries with `name`.

### performance.clearGC()
<!-- YAML
added: v8.5.0
-->

Remove all performance entry objects with `entryType` equal to `gc` from the
Performance Timeline.

### performance.clearMarks([name])
<!-- YAML
added: v8.5.0
-->

* `name` {string}

If `name` is not provided, removes all `PerformanceMark` objects from the
Performance Timeline. If `name` is provided, removes only the named mark.

### performance.clearMeasures([name])
<!-- YAML
added: v8.5.0
-->

* `name` {string}

If `name` is not provided, removes all `PerformanceMeasure` objects from the
Performance Timeline. If `name` is provided, removes only objects whose
`performanceEntry.name` matches `name`.

### performance.getEntries()
<!-- YAML
added: v8.5.0
-->

* Returns: {Array}

Returns a list of all `PerformanceEntry` objects in chronological order
with respect to `performanceEntry.startTime`.

### performance.getEntriesByName(name[, type])
<!-- YAML
added: v8.5.0
-->

* `name` {string}
* `type` {string}
* Returns: {Array}

Returns a list of all `PerformanceEntry` objects in chronological order
with respect to `performanceEntry.startTime` whose `performanceEntry.name` is
equal to `name`, and optionally, whose `performanceEntry.entryType` is equal to
`type`.

### performance.getEntriesByType(type)
<!-- YAML
added: v8.5.0
-->

* `type` {string}
* Returns: {Array}

Returns a list of all `PerformanceEntry` objects in chronological order
with respect to `performanceEntry.startTime` whose `performanceEntry.entryType`
is equal to `type`.

### performance.mark([name])
<!-- YAML
added: v8.5.0
-->

* `name` {string}

Creates a new `PerformanceMark` entry in the Performance Timeline. A
`PerformanceMark` is a subclass of `PerformanceEntry` whose
`performanceEntry.entryType` is always `'mark'`, and whose
`performanceEntry.duration` is always `0`. Performance marks are used
to mark specific significant moments in the Performance Timeline.

### performance.maxEntries
<!-- YAML
added: v9.6.0
-->

Value: {number}

The maximum number of Performance Entry items that should be added to the
Performance Timeline. This limit is not strictly enforced, but a process
warning will be emitted if the number of entries in the timeline exceeds
this limit.

Defaults to 150.

### performance.measure(name, startMark, endMark)
<!-- YAML
added: v8.5.0
-->

* `name` {string}
* `startMark` {string}
* `endMark` {string}

Creates a new `PerformanceMeasure` entry in the Performance Timeline. A
`PerformanceMeasure` is a subclass of `PerformanceEntry` whose
`performanceEntry.entryType` is always `'measure'`, and whose
`performanceEntry.duration` measures the number of milliseconds elapsed since
`startMark` and `endMark`.

The `startMark` argument may identify any *existing* `PerformanceMark` in the
Performance Timeline, or *may* identify any of the timestamp properties
provided by the `PerformanceNodeTiming` class. If the named `startMark` does
not exist, then `startMark` is set to [`timeOrigin`][] by default.

The `endMark` argument must identify any *existing* `PerformanceMark` in the
Performance Timeline or any of the timestamp properties provided by the
`PerformanceNodeTiming` class. If the named `endMark` does not exist, an
error will be thrown.

### performance.nodeTiming
<!-- YAML
added: v8.5.0
-->

* {PerformanceNodeTiming}

An instance of the `PerformanceNodeTiming` class that provides performance
metrics for specific Node.js operational milestones.

### performance.now()
<!-- YAML
added: v8.5.0
-->

* Returns: {number}

Returns the current high resolution millisecond timestamp.

### performance.timeOrigin
<!-- YAML
added: v8.5.0
-->

* {number}

The [`timeOrigin`][] specifies the high resolution millisecond timestamp from
which all performance metric durations are measured.

### performance.timerify(fn)
<!-- YAML
added: v8.5.0
-->

* `fn` {Function}

Wraps a function within a new function that measures the running time of the
wrapped function. A `PerformanceObserver` must be subscribed to the `'function'`
event type in order for the timing details to be accessed.

```js
const {
  performance,
  PerformanceObserver
} = require('perf_hooks');

function someFunction() {
  console.log('hello world');
}

const wrapped = performance.timerify(someFunction);

const obs = new PerformanceObserver((list) => {
  console.log(list.getEntries()[0].duration);
  obs.disconnect();
  performance.clearFunctions();
});
obs.observe({ entryTypes: ['function'] });

// A performance timeline entry will be created
wrapped();
```

## Class: PerformanceEntry
<!-- YAML
added: v8.5.0
-->

### performanceEntry.duration
<!-- YAML
added: v8.5.0
-->

* {number}

The total number of milliseconds elapsed for this entry. This value will not
be meaningful for all Performance Entry types.

### performanceEntry.name
<!-- YAML
added: v8.5.0
-->

* {string}

The name of the performance entry.

### performanceEntry.startTime
<!-- YAML
added: v8.5.0
-->

* {number}

The high resolution millisecond timestamp marking the starting time of the
Performance Entry.

### performanceEntry.entryType
<!-- YAML
added: v8.5.0
-->

* {string}

The type of the performance entry. Current it may be one of: `'node'`, `'mark'`,
`'measure'`, `'gc'`, or `'function'`.

### performanceEntry.kind
<!-- YAML
added: v8.5.0
-->

* {number}

When `performanceEntry.entryType` is equal to `'gc'`, the `performance.kind`
property identifies the type of garbage collection operation that occurred.
The value may be one of:

* `perf_hooks.constants.NODE_PERFORMANCE_GC_MAJOR`
* `perf_hooks.constants.NODE_PERFORMANCE_GC_MINOR`
* `perf_hooks.constants.NODE_PERFORMANCE_GC_INCREMENTAL`
* `perf_hooks.constants.NODE_PERFORMANCE_GC_WEAKCB`

## Class: PerformanceNodeTiming extends PerformanceEntry
<!-- YAML
added: v8.5.0
-->

Provides timing details for Node.js itself.

### performanceNodeTiming.bootstrapComplete
<!-- YAML
added: v8.5.0
-->

* {number}

The high resolution millisecond timestamp at which the Node.js process
completed bootstrap.

### performanceNodeTiming.clusterSetupEnd
<!-- YAML
added: v8.5.0
-->

* {number}

The high resolution millisecond timestamp at which cluster processing ended.

### performanceNodeTiming.clusterSetupStart
<!-- YAML
added: v8.5.0
-->

* {number}

The high resolution millisecond timestamp at which cluster processing started.

### performanceNodeTiming.loopExit
<!-- YAML
added: v8.5.0
-->

* {number}

The high resolution millisecond timestamp at which the Node.js event loop
exited.

### performanceNodeTiming.loopStart
<!-- YAML
added: v8.5.0
-->

* {number}

The high resolution millisecond timestamp at which the Node.js event loop
started.

### performanceNodeTiming.moduleLoadEnd
<!-- YAML
added: v8.5.0
-->

* {number}

The high resolution millisecond timestamp at which main module load ended.

### performanceNodeTiming.moduleLoadStart
<!-- YAML
added: v8.5.0
-->

* {number}

The high resolution millisecond timestamp at which main module load started.

### performanceNodeTiming.nodeStart
<!-- YAML
added: v8.5.0
-->

* {number}

The high resolution millisecond timestamp at which the Node.js process was
initialized.

### performanceNodeTiming.preloadModuleLoadEnd
<!-- YAML
added: v8.5.0
-->

* {number}

The high resolution millisecond timestamp at which preload module load ended.

### performanceNodeTiming.preloadModuleLoadStart
<!-- YAML
added: v8.5.0
-->

* {number}

The high resolution millisecond timestamp at which preload module load started.

### performanceNodeTiming.thirdPartyMainEnd
<!-- YAML
added: v8.5.0
-->

* {number}

The high resolution millisecond timestamp at which third_party_main processing
ended.

### performanceNodeTiming.thirdPartyMainStart
<!-- YAML
added: v8.5.0
-->

* {number}

The high resolution millisecond timestamp at which third_party_main processing
started.

### performanceNodeTiming.v8Start
<!-- YAML
added: v8.5.0
-->

* {number}

The high resolution millisecond timestamp at which the V8 platform was
initialized.


## Class: PerformanceObserver(callback)
<!-- YAML
added: v8.5.0
-->

* `callback` {Function} A `PerformanceObserverCallback` callback function.

`PerformanceObserver` objects provide notifications when new
`PerformanceEntry` instances have been added to the Performance Timeline.

```js
const {
  performance,
  PerformanceObserver
} = require('perf_hooks');

const obs = new PerformanceObserver((list, observer) => {
  console.log(list.getEntries());
  observer.disconnect();
});
obs.observe({ entryTypes: ['mark'], buffered: true });

performance.mark('test');
```

Because `PerformanceObserver` instances introduce their own additional
performance overhead, instances should not be left subscribed to notifications
indefinitely. Users should disconnect observers as soon as they are no
longer needed.

### Callback: PerformanceObserverCallback(list, observer)
<!-- YAML
added: v8.5.0
-->

* `list` {PerformanceObserverEntryList}
* `observer` {PerformanceObserver}

The `PerformanceObserverCallback` is invoked when a `PerformanceObserver` is
notified about new `PerformanceEntry` instances. The callback receives a
`PerformanceObserverEntryList` instance and a reference to the
`PerformanceObserver`.

### Class: PerformanceObserverEntryList
<!-- YAML
added: v8.5.0
-->

The `PerformanceObserverEntryList` class is used to provide access to the
`PerformanceEntry` instances passed to a `PerformanceObserver`.

#### performanceObserverEntryList.getEntries()
<!-- YAML
added: v8.5.0
-->

* Returns: {Array}

Returns a list of `PerformanceEntry` objects in chronological order
with respect to `performanceEntry.startTime`.

#### performanceObserverEntryList.getEntriesByName(name[, type])
<!-- YAML
added: v8.5.0
-->

* `name` {string}
* `type` {string}
* Returns: {Array}

Returns a list of `PerformanceEntry` objects in chronological order
with respect to `performanceEntry.startTime` whose `performanceEntry.name` is
equal to `name`, and optionally, whose `performanceEntry.entryType` is equal to
`type`.

#### performanceObserverEntryList.getEntriesByType(type)
<!-- YAML
added: v8.5.0
-->

* `type` {string}
* Returns: {Array}

Returns a list of `PerformanceEntry` objects in chronological order
with respect to `performanceEntry.startTime` whose `performanceEntry.entryType`
is equal to `type`.

### performanceObserver.disconnect()
<!-- YAML
added: v8.5.0
-->
Disconnects the `PerformanceObserver` instance from all notifications.

### performanceObserver.observe(options)
<!-- YAML
added: v8.5.0
-->
* `options` {Object}
  * `entryTypes` {Array} An array of strings identifying the types of
    `PerformanceEntry` instances the observer is interested in. If not
    provided an error will be thrown.
  * `buffered` {boolean} If true, the notification callback will be
    called using `setImmediate()` and multiple `PerformanceEntry` instance
    notifications will be buffered internally. If `false`, notifications will
    be immediate and synchronous. Defaults to `false`.

Subscribes the `PerformanceObserver` instance to notifications of new
`PerformanceEntry` instances identified by `options.entryTypes`.

When `options.buffered` is `false`, the `callback` will be invoked once for
every `PerformanceEntry` instance:

```js
const {
  performance,
  PerformanceObserver
} = require('perf_hooks');

const obs = new PerformanceObserver((list, observer) => {
  // called three times synchronously. list contains one item
});
obs.observe({ entryTypes: ['mark'] });

for (let n = 0; n < 3; n++)
  performance.mark(`test${n}`);
```

```js
const {
  performance,
  PerformanceObserver
} = require('perf_hooks');

const obs = new PerformanceObserver((list, observer) => {
  // called once. list contains three items
});
obs.observe({ entryTypes: ['mark'], buffered: true });

for (let n = 0; n < 3; n++)
  performance.mark(`test${n}`);
```

## Examples

### Measuring the duration of async operations

The following example uses the [Async Hooks][] and Performance APIs to measure
the actual duration of a Timeout operation (including the amount of time it
to execute the callback).

```js
'use strict';
const async_hooks = require('async_hooks');
const {
  performance,
  PerformanceObserver
} = require('perf_hooks');

const set = new Set();
const hook = async_hooks.createHook({
  init(id, type) {
    if (type === 'Timeout') {
      performance.mark(`Timeout-${id}-Init`);
      set.add(id);
    }
  },
  destroy(id) {
    if (set.has(id)) {
      set.delete(id);
      performance.mark(`Timeout-${id}-Destroy`);
      performance.measure(`Timeout-${id}`,
                          `Timeout-${id}-Init`,
                          `Timeout-${id}-Destroy`);
    }
  }
});
hook.enable();

const obs = new PerformanceObserver((list, observer) => {
  console.log(list.getEntries()[0]);
  performance.clearMarks();
  performance.clearMeasures();
  observer.disconnect();
});
obs.observe({ entryTypes: ['measure'], buffered: true });

setTimeout(() => {}, 1000);
```

### Measuring how long it takes to load dependencies

The following example measures the duration of `require()` operations to load
dependencies:

<!-- eslint-disable no-global-assign -->
```js
'use strict';
const {
  performance,
  PerformanceObserver
} = require('perf_hooks');
const mod = require('module');

// Monkey patch the require function
mod.Module.prototype.require =
  performance.timerify(mod.Module.prototype.require);
require = performance.timerify(require);

// Activate the observer
const obs = new PerformanceObserver((list) => {
  const entries = list.getEntries();
  entries.forEach((entry) => {
    console.log(`require('${entry[0]}')`, entry.duration);
  });
  obs.disconnect();
  // Free memory
  performance.clearFunctions();
});
obs.observe({ entryTypes: ['function'], buffered: true });

require('some-module');
```

[`timeOrigin`]: https://w3c.github.io/hr-time/#dom-performance-timeorigin
[Async Hooks]: async_hooks.html
[W3C Performance Timeline]: https://w3c.github.io/performance-timeline/

Commit message:

perf_hooks: fix timing
Fixes: https://github.com/nodejs/node/issues/17892
Fixes: https://github.com/nodejs/node/issues/17893
Fixes: https://github.com/nodejs/node/issues/18992

PR-URL: https://github.com/nodejs/node/pull/18993
Reviewed-By: James M Snell <jasnell@gmail.com>
Reviewed-By: Anna Henningsen <anna@addaleax.net>
Reviewed-By: Colin Ihrig <cjihrig@gmail.com>
Reviewed-By: Anatoli Papirovski <apapirovski@mac.com>

doc/api/perf_hooks.md, after:

# Performance Timing API

<!--introduced_in=v8.5.0-->

> Stability: 1 - Experimental

The Performance Timing API provides an implementation of the
[W3C Performance Timeline][] specification. The purpose of the API
is to support collection of high resolution performance metrics.
This is the same Performance API as implemented in modern Web browsers.

```js
const { performance } = require('perf_hooks');
performance.mark('A');
doSomeLongRunningProcess(() => {
  performance.mark('B');
  performance.measure('A to B', 'A', 'B');
  const measure = performance.getEntriesByName('A to B')[0];
  console.log(measure.duration);
  // Prints the number of milliseconds between Mark 'A' and Mark 'B'
});
```

## Class: Performance
<!-- YAML
added: v8.5.0
-->

The `Performance` provides access to performance metric data. A single
instance of this class is provided via the `performance` property.

### performance.clearEntries(name)
<!-- YAML
added: v9.5.0
-->

Remove all performance entry objects with `entryType` equal to `name` from the
Performance Timeline.

### performance.clearFunctions([name])
<!-- YAML
added: v8.5.0
-->

* `name` {string}

If `name` is not provided, removes all `PerformanceFunction` objects from the
Performance Timeline. If `name` is provided, removes entries with `name`.

### performance.clearGC()
<!-- YAML
added: v8.5.0
-->

Remove all performance entry objects with `entryType` equal to `gc` from the
Performance Timeline.

### performance.clearMarks([name])
<!-- YAML
added: v8.5.0
-->

* `name` {string}

If `name` is not provided, removes all `PerformanceMark` objects from the
Performance Timeline. If `name` is provided, removes only the named mark.

### performance.clearMeasures([name])
<!-- YAML
added: v8.5.0
-->

* `name` {string}

If `name` is not provided, removes all `PerformanceMeasure` objects from the
Performance Timeline. If `name` is provided, removes only objects whose
`performanceEntry.name` matches `name`.

### performance.getEntries()
<!-- YAML
added: v8.5.0
-->

* Returns: {Array}

Returns a list of all `PerformanceEntry` objects in chronological order
with respect to `performanceEntry.startTime`.

### performance.getEntriesByName(name[, type])
<!-- YAML
added: v8.5.0
-->

* `name` {string}
* `type` {string}
* Returns: {Array}

Returns a list of all `PerformanceEntry` objects in chronological order
with respect to `performanceEntry.startTime` whose `performanceEntry.name` is
equal to `name`, and optionally, whose `performanceEntry.entryType` is equal to
`type`.

### performance.getEntriesByType(type)
<!-- YAML
added: v8.5.0
-->

* `type` {string}
* Returns: {Array}

Returns a list of all `PerformanceEntry` objects in chronological order
with respect to `performanceEntry.startTime` whose `performanceEntry.entryType`
is equal to `type`.

### performance.mark([name])
<!-- YAML
added: v8.5.0
-->

* `name` {string}

Creates a new `PerformanceMark` entry in the Performance Timeline. A
`PerformanceMark` is a subclass of `PerformanceEntry` whose
`performanceEntry.entryType` is always `'mark'`, and whose
`performanceEntry.duration` is always `0`. Performance marks are used
to mark specific significant moments in the Performance Timeline.

### performance.maxEntries
<!-- YAML
added: v9.6.0
-->

Value: {number}

The maximum number of Performance Entry items that should be added to the
Performance Timeline. This limit is not strictly enforced, but a process
warning will be emitted if the number of entries in the timeline exceeds
this limit.

Defaults to 150.

### performance.measure(name, startMark, endMark)
<!-- YAML
added: v8.5.0
-->

* `name` {string}
* `startMark` {string}
* `endMark` {string}

Creates a new `PerformanceMeasure` entry in the Performance Timeline. A
`PerformanceMeasure` is a subclass of `PerformanceEntry` whose
`performanceEntry.entryType` is always `'measure'`, and whose
`performanceEntry.duration` measures the number of milliseconds elapsed since
`startMark` and `endMark`.

The `startMark` argument may identify any *existing* `PerformanceMark` in the
Performance Timeline, or *may* identify any of the timestamp properties
provided by the `PerformanceNodeTiming` class. If the named `startMark` does
not exist, then `startMark` is set to [`timeOrigin`][] by default.

The `endMark` argument must identify any *existing* `PerformanceMark` in the
Performance Timeline or any of the timestamp properties provided by the
`PerformanceNodeTiming` class. If the named `endMark` does not exist, an
error will be thrown.

### performance.nodeTiming
<!-- YAML
added: v8.5.0
-->

* {PerformanceNodeTiming}

An instance of the `PerformanceNodeTiming` class that provides performance
metrics for specific Node.js operational milestones.

### performance.now()
<!-- YAML
added: v8.5.0
-->

* Returns: {number}

Returns the current high resolution millisecond timestamp, where 0 represents
the start of the current `node` process.

### performance.timeOrigin
<!-- YAML
added: v8.5.0
-->

* {number}

The [`timeOrigin`][] specifies the high resolution millisecond timestamp at
which the current `node` process began, measured in Unix time.

### performance.timerify(fn)
<!-- YAML
added: v8.5.0
-->

* `fn` {Function}

Wraps a function within a new function that measures the running time of the
wrapped function. A `PerformanceObserver` must be subscribed to the `'function'`
event type in order for the timing details to be accessed.

```js
const {
  performance,
  PerformanceObserver
} = require('perf_hooks');

function someFunction() {
  console.log('hello world');
}

const wrapped = performance.timerify(someFunction);

const obs = new PerformanceObserver((list) => {
  console.log(list.getEntries()[0].duration);
  obs.disconnect();
  performance.clearFunctions();
});
obs.observe({ entryTypes: ['function'] });

// A performance timeline entry will be created
wrapped();
```

## Class: PerformanceEntry
<!-- YAML
added: v8.5.0
-->

### performanceEntry.duration
<!-- YAML
added: v8.5.0
-->

* {number}

The total number of milliseconds elapsed for this entry. This value will not
be meaningful for all Performance Entry types.

### performanceEntry.name
<!-- YAML
added: v8.5.0
-->

* {string}

The name of the performance entry.

### performanceEntry.startTime
<!-- YAML
added: v8.5.0
-->

* {number}

The high resolution millisecond timestamp marking the starting time of the
Performance Entry.

### performanceEntry.entryType
<!-- YAML
added: v8.5.0
-->

* {string}

The type of the performance entry. Current it may be one of: `'node'`, `'mark'`,
`'measure'`, `'gc'`, or `'function'`.

### performanceEntry.kind
<!-- YAML
added: v8.5.0
-->

* {number}

When `performanceEntry.entryType` is equal to `'gc'`, the `performance.kind`
property identifies the type of garbage collection operation that occurred.
The value may be one of:

* `perf_hooks.constants.NODE_PERFORMANCE_GC_MAJOR`
* `perf_hooks.constants.NODE_PERFORMANCE_GC_MINOR`
* `perf_hooks.constants.NODE_PERFORMANCE_GC_INCREMENTAL`
* `perf_hooks.constants.NODE_PERFORMANCE_GC_WEAKCB`

## Class: PerformanceNodeTiming extends PerformanceEntry
<!-- YAML
added: v8.5.0
-->

Provides timing details for Node.js itself.

### performanceNodeTiming.bootstrapComplete
<!-- YAML
added: v8.5.0
-->

* {number}

The high resolution millisecond timestamp at which the Node.js process
completed bootstrapping. If bootstrapping has not yet finished, the property
has the value of -1.

### performanceNodeTiming.clusterSetupEnd
<!-- YAML
added: v8.5.0
-->

* {number}

The high resolution millisecond timestamp at which cluster processing ended. If
cluster processing has not yet ended, the property has the value of -1.

### performanceNodeTiming.clusterSetupStart
<!-- YAML
added: v8.5.0
-->

* {number}

The high resolution millisecond timestamp at which cluster processing started.
If cluster processing has not yet started, the property has the value of -1.

### performanceNodeTiming.loopExit
<!-- YAML
added: v8.5.0
-->

* {number}

The high resolution millisecond timestamp at which the Node.js event loop
exited. If the event loop has not yet exited, the property has the value of -1.
It can only have a value of not -1 in a handler of the [`'exit'`][] event.

### performanceNodeTiming.loopStart
<!-- YAML
added: v8.5.0
-->

* {number}

The high resolution millisecond timestamp at which the Node.js event loop
started. If the event loop has not yet started (e.g., in the first tick of the
main script), the property has the value of -1.

### performanceNodeTiming.moduleLoadEnd
<!-- YAML
added: v8.5.0
-->

* {number}

The high resolution millisecond timestamp at which main module load ended.

### performanceNodeTiming.moduleLoadStart
<!-- YAML
added: v8.5.0
-->

* {number}

The high resolution millisecond timestamp at which main module load started.

### performanceNodeTiming.nodeStart
<!-- YAML
added: v8.5.0
-->

* {number}

The high resolution millisecond timestamp at which the Node.js process was
initialized.

### performanceNodeTiming.preloadModuleLoadEnd
<!-- YAML
added: v8.5.0
-->

* {number}

The high resolution millisecond timestamp at which preload module load ended.

### performanceNodeTiming.preloadModuleLoadStart
<!-- YAML
added: v8.5.0
-->

* {number}

The high resolution millisecond timestamp at which preload module load started.

### performanceNodeTiming.thirdPartyMainEnd
<!-- YAML
added: v8.5.0
-->

* {number}

The high resolution millisecond timestamp at which third\_party\_main
processing ended. If third\_party\_main processing has not yet ended, the
property has the value of -1.

### performanceNodeTiming.thirdPartyMainStart
<!-- YAML
added: v8.5.0
-->

* {number}

The high resolution millisecond timestamp at which third\_party\_main
processing started. If third\_party\_main processing has not yet started, the
property has the value of -1.

### performanceNodeTiming.v8Start
<!-- YAML
added: v8.5.0
-->

* {number}

The high resolution millisecond timestamp at which the V8 platform was
initialized.


## Class: PerformanceObserver(callback)
<!-- YAML
added: v8.5.0
-->

* `callback` {Function} A `PerformanceObserverCallback` callback function.

`PerformanceObserver` objects provide notifications when new
`PerformanceEntry` instances have been added to the Performance Timeline.

```js
const {
  performance,
  PerformanceObserver
} = require('perf_hooks');

const obs = new PerformanceObserver((list, observer) => {
  console.log(list.getEntries());
  observer.disconnect();
});
obs.observe({ entryTypes: ['mark'], buffered: true });

performance.mark('test');
```

Because `PerformanceObserver` instances introduce their own additional
performance overhead, instances should not be left subscribed to notifications
indefinitely. Users should disconnect observers as soon as they are no
longer needed.

### Callback: PerformanceObserverCallback(list, observer)
<!-- YAML
added: v8.5.0
-->

* `list` {PerformanceObserverEntryList}
* `observer` {PerformanceObserver}

The `PerformanceObserverCallback` is invoked when a `PerformanceObserver` is
notified about new `PerformanceEntry` instances. The callback receives a
`PerformanceObserverEntryList` instance and a reference to the
`PerformanceObserver`.

### Class: PerformanceObserverEntryList
<!-- YAML
added: v8.5.0
-->

The `PerformanceObserverEntryList` class is used to provide access to the
`PerformanceEntry` instances passed to a `PerformanceObserver`.

#### performanceObserverEntryList.getEntries()
<!-- YAML
added: v8.5.0
-->

* Returns: {Array}

Returns a list of `PerformanceEntry` objects in chronological order
with respect to `performanceEntry.startTime`.

#### performanceObserverEntryList.getEntriesByName(name[, type])
<!-- YAML
added: v8.5.0
-->

* `name` {string}
* `type` {string}
* Returns: {Array}

Returns a list of `PerformanceEntry` objects in chronological order
with respect to `performanceEntry.startTime` whose `performanceEntry.name` is
equal to `name`, and optionally, whose `performanceEntry.entryType` is equal to
`type`.

#### performanceObserverEntryList.getEntriesByType(type)
<!-- YAML
added: v8.5.0
-->

* `type` {string}
* Returns: {Array}

Returns a list of `PerformanceEntry` objects in chronological order
with respect to `performanceEntry.startTime` whose `performanceEntry.entryType`
is equal to `type`.

### performanceObserver.disconnect()
<!-- YAML
added: v8.5.0
-->
Disconnects the `PerformanceObserver` instance from all notifications.

### performanceObserver.observe(options)
<!-- YAML
added: v8.5.0
-->
* `options` {Object}
  * `entryTypes` {Array} An array of strings identifying the types of
    `PerformanceEntry` instances the observer is interested in. If not
    provided an error will be thrown.
  * `buffered` {boolean} If true, the notification callback will be
    called using `setImmediate()` and multiple `PerformanceEntry` instance
    notifications will be buffered internally. If `false`, notifications will
    be immediate and synchronous. Defaults to `false`.

Subscribes the `PerformanceObserver` instance to notifications of new
`PerformanceEntry` instances identified by `options.entryTypes`.

When `options.buffered` is `false`, the `callback` will be invoked once for
every `PerformanceEntry` instance:

```js
const {
  performance,
  PerformanceObserver
} = require('perf_hooks');

const obs = new PerformanceObserver((list, observer) => {
  // called three times synchronously. list contains one item
});
obs.observe({ entryTypes: ['mark'] });

for (let n = 0; n < 3; n++)
  performance.mark(`test${n}`);
```

```js
const {
  performance,
  PerformanceObserver
} = require('perf_hooks');

const obs = new PerformanceObserver((list, observer) => {
  // called once. list contains three items
});
obs.observe({ entryTypes: ['mark'], buffered: true });

for (let n = 0; n < 3; n++)
  performance.mark(`test${n}`);
```

## Examples

### Measuring the duration of async operations

The following example uses the [Async Hooks][] and Performance APIs to measure
the actual duration of a Timeout operation (including the amount of time it
to execute the callback).

```js
'use strict';
const async_hooks = require('async_hooks');
const {
  performance,
  PerformanceObserver
} = require('perf_hooks');

const set = new Set();
const hook = async_hooks.createHook({
  init(id, type) {
    if (type === 'Timeout') {
      performance.mark(`Timeout-${id}-Init`);
      set.add(id);
    }
  },
  destroy(id) {
    if (set.has(id)) {
      set.delete(id);
      performance.mark(`Timeout-${id}-Destroy`);
      performance.measure(`Timeout-${id}`,
                          `Timeout-${id}-Init`,
                          `Timeout-${id}-Destroy`);
    }
  }
});
hook.enable();

const obs = new PerformanceObserver((list, observer) => {
  console.log(list.getEntries()[0]);
  performance.clearMarks();
  performance.clearMeasures();
  observer.disconnect();
});
obs.observe({ entryTypes: ['measure'], buffered: true });

setTimeout(() => {}, 1000);
```

### Measuring how long it takes to load dependencies

The following example measures the duration of `require()` operations to load
dependencies:

<!-- eslint-disable no-global-assign -->
```js
'use strict';
const {
  performance,
  PerformanceObserver
} = require('perf_hooks');
const mod = require('module');

// Monkey patch the require function
mod.Module.prototype.require =
  performance.timerify(mod.Module.prototype.require);
require = performance.timerify(require);

// Activate the observer
const obs = new PerformanceObserver((list) => {
  const entries = list.getEntries();
  entries.forEach((entry) => {
    console.log(`require('${entry[0]}')`, entry.duration);
  });
  obs.disconnect();
  // Free memory
  performance.clearFunctions();
});
obs.observe({ entryTypes: ['function'], buffered: true });

require('some-module');
```

[`'exit'`]: process.html#process_event_exit
[`timeOrigin`]: https://w3c.github.io/hr-time/#dom-performance-timeorigin
[Async Hooks]: async_hooks.html
[W3C Performance Timeline]: https://w3c.github.io/performance-timeline/
